---
title: CSN Circuits
id: 5664728672562267801
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2009-03-02T21:30:00.000-08:00
updated: 2009-03-05T07:38:31.519-08:00
blog: coffee_shops
tags: 
---

The vendor contributes a payload plus bonus, where the payload is some good (such as tea), and the bonus is towards an LCD game, soliciting patron heroics (a challenge to perform, per some system for scoring).The default is for the entire bonus to return to the vendor, but a typical game will reward the house (shop) simply for loading the game, like that free 200 on your SAT, just for getting your name right.The next few levels feed your chosen worthy cause, picked from the coffee shop's list of available beneficiaries (or vendor's list as the case may be).  "Like church bingo" said Glenn.  "Bingo!" said I.And right up against the ceiling, the points are to you, the player, a reward for having served your cause.At this point, the logic gets dicey, as true monetary rewards, as in "walk away with cash" would make this more a casino, where strict rules apply.Or, the rewards to self could be good towards supplies in the neighboring gift store (maybe a microscope, over time?).  Or toward more payloads with game time.In [the "edu-mall" hybrid](http://www.flickr.com/photos/17157315@N00/3324424385/sizes/l/in/photostream/), your supply stores and education stations are in close proximity.  You could spend the day here and come away both more informed and more well endowed -- a cool kind of school, with age-appropriate vending.An important aspect of this circuitry is we give patrons the option of registering their successes (high scores) in conjunction with their identity records.  You'll develop a track record.Altering the model just a little turns these good scores into academic credits, transferable in ways we might negotiate.These blueprints have a futuristic flavor.  I've been [talking about 2012](http://www.flickr.com/photos/17157315@N00/3325262372/sizes/l/) as a target date for some of the services coming on-line.Other services have already started.You just need the right equipment and, to identify as a part of the network, the right decals and decor.  Chaordic principles apply.  We seek organic growth.