---
title: Self Promotion
id: 4300981579090463715
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2009-05-09T12:16:00.000-07:00
updated: 2009-05-09T13:56:02.209-07:00
blog: coffee_shops
tags: 
---

An aspect of our "[church bingo](http://coffeeshopsnet.blogspot.com/2009/03/csn-circuits.html)" model people sometimes object to is they think overtly taking credit for one's heroics is in itself rather self-indulgent and objectionable, is transparent self promotion (a bad thing, in their books).My response is you're free to make your donations anonymously on occasion, but when building a semi-public track record, it's more about taking a stand, advertising the work of your target teams in the field more than just drawing unearned attention to yourself eating scones, [geeking out](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/2008/11/geeking-out.html) in some way.For example, [a paradigm customer](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2008/11/self-schooling.html) might be some 15 year old girl hell bent on making life difficult for salmon farmers off the coast of North America.  She's seen some well made documentaries and is persuaded that these are "freak fish" that don't deserve our business.  There's [a special interest](http://www.norwegian-salmon.com/salmon/extended-en.php?recID=59) working this angle, some needle in a hay stack.  No other customer is tracking this issue.  In glancing over her record, the barista learns something about what kids today are into.  Multiply this story many times, and you see how a useful buzz might develop, with philosophical debates and investigations at its core.A behavior customers would be much more cynical about is posing as favoring this or that, but only to impress a potential date, while meanwhile, in some other shop, ten blocks away, there's a whole different track record on file, lots of mutually inconsistent heroics, all because in that venue it was someone else and so on.  Nothing holds this character together, in terms of standing for principles, other than the "I need to impress someone" principle.  This kind of behavior often rubs people the wrong way.The CSN is more of a playground than a set of scripts.  In providing the tools, setting some high standards, the games get to be engaging, worthwhile.  But beyond that, how you manage your own identity is your business.Speaking of which, I maybe made a mistake wearing the T-shirt below to the supermarket and bank yesterday.  First, because this'd been my pajama top owing to a pre-dawn trip to the airport on chauffeur duty and second because it triggered lots of snarky comments, some overtly expressed, like that shopping cart couple I dodged on the sidewalk, said I didn't really listen at all.[](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhzBwnlqvlSBKPxmyK2SA4r3tYrJ3hk4cj0PyItOEJy1hftURZS7gZslHx8okoVC0XcppevauINHh8E84Yj6RtOogI1sGFay3LNs2iR6eycNjEEoQhO_T72v6fZ73soB2TyfHZEN-7p2Jen/s1600-h/00001.jpg)Turning to popular culture and other stuff that I care about:  a kind Friend phoned during commercial break to let me know Michael J. Fox was just about to visit Bhutan on channel 2.  I dashed up three floors and with the help of an assistant, was able to catch that segment.  Michael was in good form and yes, that's the Bhutan I remember, was happy in.  Also:  thanks to Facebook I'm able to be a Katie Couric fan from a distance.  I don't know exactly where this helmet picture was taken, however I appreciate her as a constructive player and a pro (my friends are used to hearing me rave about various people I look up to -- that's just something I do).  So what's up with Sri Lanka? [ Is India](http://www.hindu.com/2009/05/08/stories/2009050855381200.htm) planning something?  I've seen Windows7 in action, but haven't seen the new Star Trek yet (I'm planning on doing that though).[](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhqeQoWWDaFLh5qjcnkcwCNR5pE5_WsUMSzD_ZvtzUvKwj9D4ay1eqvK8ssCeWy9AmWb_6twDmbYzwYJGnka4_nLukHrf0XLp_Ce4Labg0crHH-c8lN-NyuBIoASxNEBwFqN0oAlEK8Ttkj/s1600-h/bullet_proof.jpg)from Facebook