---
title: More Twists
id: 7609495598024785323
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2011-11-10T10:06:00.000-08:00
updated: 2011-12-06T09:27:05.349-08:00
blog: bizmo_diaries
tags: 
---

[](http://www.flickr.com/photos/17157315@N00/6327951177/)The "petting zoo" as I call it, has filled with more animals that people like to hunt, feel are fair game.  In a puritanical society, hunting down one's fellow man for sport is OK, as the latter may be stereotyped as possessed by demons and therefore of Satan's army.Portlanders have inherited some of those "holy crusade" memes that made the Teutonic Knights the terror of Varmia in Copernicus's day (I've been reading [Dava's latest](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2011/12/starry-night.html)).  He was always being vexed by this gang of retard-bullies (as he probably saw them).Caught up in the hunt will be lots of cuties still in there (talking OPDX campus), like dolphins and whales caught in the trawler's net, even some best-in-show kitties.  Why be cruel to such innocents?  America eats its young, spits out its old.So the outrage might build, generating yet another backlash, and maybe a Thirty Years War or something suitably religious.Saints, statues, more souvenirs...  ain't European culture grand?FNB pulled out yesterday (I took down the sign myself) because these are not ethnic vegans and our food was going to waste -- precisely the thing we're about countering (food waste).  There's only so much we might do for the bloodthirsty.The Anglo-Euros (mostly English speaking) never mounted an impressive show of their ability to provide social services, even though they have the technology.  I didn't see eye exams happening, nor drug counseling, with attractive brochures about cool farm-like schools around the state, where ranchers have realized the bonanza to be had in helping street youth get a grip.I've been storyboarding such schools for a high turnover student body of wannabe and actual diplomats, mixing it up, making networks that'd dampen the outward war impulse.  The usual USIS / USIA kind of thing, back when the USA still had a State Department (since dissolved as far as I know -- or did I miss something?).To that end, OPDX has been useful.  I've seen more up close how a real estate bubble works.  You could barely get a tent spot after the launch of the new zip code area (a proposal), whereas now they're all underwater, more like Stockton, CA.  Sleeping bags come in faster than people can use 'em, so they get trashed after one night in the rain.  It's a culture built on throwing away, as kids around the #OccupyIraq camps [will be happy to attest](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2005/01/inside-iraq-untold-stories-movie.html) (not much of an exit plan there either, or "endgame" as we say, except in some rarefied circles like in Obama's Wars).Portland's future property values depend a lot on how the plan to put the parks to some serious uses, for civilian trainees working on their camping / disaster relief skills etc., get implemented on the ground.  We've billed ourselves as high IQ, so don't want to go bezerkezoid in too embarrassing a fashion.  How would we "put a bird on it" then?[Schools](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2008/07/quaker-roots.html) are under the same pressure as the parks (many tempting athletic fields, some in mixed use parks, like at Grant), given all the new gear and their need to develop GIS / GPS skills.Currently, USA kids are getting leap frogged right and left, given the ineptness of their adult supervisors.  Effective [andragogy](http://mathforum.org/kb/message.jspa?messageID=7594227&tstart=0) is almost unknown here -- only [a few early adopters](http://mathforum.org/kb/message.jspa?messageID=7571790&tstart=0) by the looks of things.  Democracy is in a shambles.  The Idiocracy (a mob psychology) reigns supreme (much like Beef Supreme in Idiocracy).Basically, if your school has no electric ATVs, you're going to be in some serious competition with those that do.  Put the key [in your kuffka](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/2011/10/october-look.html) ("stuffka for your kuffka" is a kristmas kampaign).