---
title: TG 2011
id: 449836312160471544
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2011-11-25T10:44:00.001-08:00
updated: 2015-03-04T12:21:01.856-08:00
blog: bizmo_diaries
tags: 
---

:: tg 2011 ::

Our plan to join the family up north was canceled this year, as we pulled together in spirit around Evelyn, my grandmother's niece.  Mary and Alice, her two daughters, are with her.

Good friends took us in, Tara and I.  

Lindsey would have joined us but she's still recovering from Occupy Portland, which took a lot out of her.  We brought her back food, vegan, from her FNB friends and well wishers.

I'm grateful for this time with Tara and enjoyed the five documentaries we got to watch together, over cheeses, including a few hours on [the Korean War](http://controlroom.blogspot.com/2011/11/fire-and-ice-korean-war-movie-review.html), as it's called.

Lots of dogs joined us, a few cats.  I left the car door open overnight, mistakenly, and Lindsey's cat made a night of it, in the passenger seat (or so I surmise, based on that's where I found her curled up in a ball, like a hibernating squirrel).

My best to Dawn's side of the family.  I've been following Aunt Bettie's progress.

"Americans spend the most money the day after they profess gratitude for what they already have" said one of my friends.  Interesting observation.

We're not boycotting or anything, just staying away from crowds.  As I mentioned to Tara, I'm happy to share December 25 with [the Christians](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2008/01/christmas-folk-lore.html) but in no way do I consider it theirs exclusively. We enjoy the atmosphere that's created, why not.

I was glad someone said a prayer for native Americans at the day's feast.  That's customary in our family as well, and amounts to far more than just lip service I like to think.

So good to see [Elise, Les and Ruth](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/2006/11/ritual-meal-prep.html), even if only for a couple hours.  A good chance to swap stories.