---
title: Think Tank Techniques
id: 572440548283063073
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2009-11-14T17:13:00.000-08:00
updated: 2011-01-30T14:33:14.276-08:00
blog: bizmo_diaries
tags: 
---

:: private undercover party ::We're setting up at Duke's for our private undercover party, discreetly advertised only through select channels. The producers each have their own ways of promoting clandestine events. DJ Troy is managing logistics, including lighting. I'm on projector, Walker on sound.The framework is to support others showing up and wanting to take the floor, give us a presentation. A fully developed genre, say [the autobiography](http://coffeeshopsnet.blogspot.com/2009/11/autobiography-night.html), might be a theme for an evening, to be continued at a later date. Our event this time is more political, given our Laughing Horse Collective connection, although I argued for a stronger engineering approach on the way over, warming up for providing my piece of the gig.Perhaps a missing ingredient, for adding down the road, is a community access television component. What community again? Well, we'd like to include Portland, given that's where we are, and given the already mature cable TV market.On the other hand, mixing our various media feeds is probably not best accomplished in real time? Just having our videographers present will possibly supply sufficient grist for our mills, plus give us more control over what goes out over the wire.In contrast with ISEPP lectures, more like its plans for salons, this format presumes a choppier format, with Lightning Talks of five minutes or less strongly emphasized in early promotions.We're in a mid-sized venue pre-equipped for multi-media. Not every gathering will expect a DJ and live music, VHS tapes playing on random monitors, smoke machine, projected Internet content.Lots of mix and match.I'll also plan on showing some hypertoons, computed on the fly vs. pre-recorded.[](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEi_IAYbkFIn-EHLrL7k13p4FgToY7X6uzGYaqIZ5TuHcHYfnbD05FrjNn9Lp1wa9tyZLvvT2oN-MPN8HpiJDtarWA8BakNdMDk5zy5ngPxIHsHlCwsYFD6I2HyzYBLFyt5I6At7/s1600-h/private_under_cover.jpg)