---
title: Hollow Schools
id: 8689060061370471133
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2017-02-19T10:48:00.001-08:00
updated: 2017-02-19T11:26:46.244-08:00
blog: control_room
tags: 
---

The emerging trend in the high tech economy is to provide unemployed or 
underemployed workers, college students, curious teens and others, with 
many "hollow school" options, meaning the exercises are canned, and no 
teachers are present.

Work through an automated textbook (web-based), and you'll pop out the other end of the pipeline with the needed skills.

That's a theory, quite unproved.  It'll work for some people, as most 
fad diets do, and those are the people you want giving glowing 
testimonials. "I did the WorkForce Training [tm] and now I'm making one 
hundred K!"

Is academia the source of this dream? I'd say more it's from publishing.
 We need students / customers to "work through" our material. The 
teachers are no longer in real time, just look it up on Stack Overflow if
 there's a problem, or maybe we set up bandwidth for students to help 
each other, perhaps awarding them extra credit somehow for so-doing.

The messy business of keeping a faculty alive is what's left to the 
university in this picture.  The publishers siphon off students and 
furnish some credential based on "working through" their offerings.  
States find it easier to work with publishers, which are businesses, 
than with universities, which are not as eager to get behind 
self-gutting platforms.

Where a more intelligent government + university system might step in, 
is with experiments to reverse the model, and pay students, instead of 
making students pay. If learning JavaScript + HTML + CSS is so vital to 
the economy, then lets bleed out a stipend, an allowance, could be to
cyber-currency wallets on the cellphone (university provided?).

Pay teachers and students both, as they'll be exchanging roles all this 
time anyway. I may learn React and/or Angular from you (both 
JavaScript), but then I'm a Python teacher and will teach you Flask.  
Besides, it's work to study.  Work-study is what we do for recreation, 
cradle to grave.

"Where does the money come from?" you ask.  That's a question for 
general systems theory, the answer being "from the sun" (current = 
currency at the root of it all). Some economists may have competing 
answers but GST is more of a science than Econ is.

If you want to limit how these work-study program credits might be used,
 that's what FinTech is all about.  Pay students to learn JavaScript in 
currency exchangeable for groceries but not booze. If you're studying 
biology, earned credits might be towards a catalog of microscopes and 
related equipment.

At the O'Reilly School of Technology (OST), our PR was contra-MOOC in 
the sense that we didn't think a 1:10000 teacher-student ratio was all 
that workable.

Not that there's anything wrong with watching Youtubes. One may learn 
plenty from passive viewing, as well as from reading. But when does 
another human evaluate the quality of your own work? Are you tested only
 by machines?  What's the workflow?  Is the school you're in hollow?

Do you think by watching doctor shows you become a doctor?  Do we get 
computer programmers from robograders? What's the fail rate? What's the 
theory?

At OST we were more wanting to duplicate the Renaissance 1-on-1 
apprentice model, where, in joining the JavaScript guild, one gets 
paired with a guru, a guide, someone who will work with you directly and
 think about your code with you. A co-programmer of sorts.

The whole thrust of Extreme Programming + Agile was "those who work 
alone don't develop as team players."  Which is not to say working alone
 is unimportant. There's no either/or here.

The irony in this picture is hollowed out schools are scrambling to deal
 with the unemployment problem created by letting go of all the teachers by hollowing out all the schools.

We think faceless bureaucracies are now in position to roll over the 
apprentice model.  Finally, we don't need to worry about teachers i.e. 
innovators and researchers, people who study for a living. 

We can freeze our pot of gold curriculum into that end of the rainbow 
skills training we believe is out there, and all our unemployed will get
 their $90K full stack developer jobs. Solution provided!

Yeah right. Count me a skeptic.