---
title: More from Quaker-P (revised)
id: 114191642333900364
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2006-03-09T10:37:00.000-08:00
updated: 2006-11-15T11:44:16.653-08:00
blog: control_room
tags: 
---

So if the prez wants to advertise why a line item veto might be useful, now would be a good time.  You've got a Congress happy to cave to mob anti-Arab psychology, and tacking its deal-killing legislation to a continued funding bill for the war in Iraq (oldest trick in the book -- bind what a president hates to what a president most wants).The prez could say "OK, I promised a veto, now here it is" and then "I guess that means no more war in Iraq huh?"  Troops start coming home, the UAE closes harbors to military shipping unless it's to take hardware out of the region (with other harbors to follow), and we celebrate the re-emergence of civilian control over the Pentagon.The Pentagon would be only too happy to leave anyway, as what Iraq needs is better civilian infrastructure and more police of the non-death-squad variety.  American boys are starting to get cynical about any bright future in the armed services and that's bad for recruiting (helping tsunami victims, on the other hand, made our boys into heroes being all they could be -- girls too).If you can't back up that noble-sounding rhetoric about defending the Constitution, freedom, democracy, with logically consistent on-the-ground activities, well, that hurts both prospecting and recruiting -- even given the devastation in New Orleans and a compliant not-lifting-a-finger FEMA (yes, if civilian life is made miserable enough, the recruits will keep coming, having nowhere else to turn).Back to Coalition TV: we've got John Bolton at the UN feeling "a sense of urgency" around Iran's low-level defiance of the IAEA.  Iran is at least dimly aware that a nuclear superpower has invaded and occupied the country right next to it, on false pretenses no less (forged documents from Niger, accompanying hype from Cheney).  Americans, on the other hand, are busy watching Survivor (so-called "reality" TV) and resent the distraction.We already know that the UN hasn't the backbone to stand up to the USA's neocons (a principle established in round one) so I can see where Iran's defiance might enter the equations.Anyway, since when did the Pentagon have any say in this war?  The whole show has been out-sourced to beltway bandits like Raytheon, home of the cruise missile (ka-ching) and "no connection to Cheney" Halliburton.Some days I wonder why we even send journalists to that 5-gon any more.  Who even buys the myth of "an American people in control"?  Nakedly imperialist aggression is the "way of life" we must defend nowadays.  Like, what's the fun in being the only superpower if they won't let you flaunt it?====OK, time to go teach Python to 8th graders.  You might think I take a dim view of Americans, given my rhetoric.  But of course I'm eagerly investing in a bright future for our kids, which means I'm busy giving them basic survival skills, like computer programming (very needed in our urban jungle these days).  See my [Bizmo Diaries](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/) for more info.And so what are you doing to help America today, if I may ask.