---
title: Repairing Voting
id: 2907177331728862805
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2010-09-18T18:14:00.000-07:00
updated: 2010-09-18T18:31:06.554-07:00
blog: control_room
tags: 
---

[](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjtswsJhL5DJzzoPwpGfIYARnGQfpWpeZvtDeka13n-UjKm-1r9uakEFhvB4XDw1cDGOMubTyQ19p_DJvq_l3dPS4UqXZ5mktAj0BOoEzboNhL7O8xwsIC2hwdNtPDDYBbe44GJ/s1600/holdenweb.png)Today is [Free Software Day](http://www.fsf.org/news/celebrate-software-freedom-day-with-the-libreplanet-community) and geeks in my lineage (open source) are expected to stand up for democratic rights, even in an electronic age.  Especially in an electronic age.  Here's from [today's stash of writings](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/synergeo/message/63248) (typos fixed):Imagine something similar to vote by mail in Oregon. You don'tall have to vote on the same day, there's at least a week. Youneed not take time off work. You'll have a way to vote online,by entering your PIN. Email confirmation will come back to youremail box, showing how you voted and giving another number youcan use to find your vote. You needn't keep it a secret how youvoted -- be as public as you like (your choice).Traveling overseas? No problemo. There's a way to vote fromyour iPhone.There's also a lot of votes taken throughout the year, polls. Peopleare in the habit of voting often if they want to. So they knowif their credentials are working, i.e. it's not a matter of beingsurprised on "election day" (once a year? once every four years?).On the contrary, a trusted voting infrastructure is used almostdaily, by at least some set of eligible persons (you might haveneeded to register -- like now).It's easy to imagine working solutions that are light years moreadvanced than what we have today. People generally feel satisfiedwith the systems and understand how they work. Access is quasi-universal. Literacy rates are high, infant mortality is low, andthe debates on TV are intelligent and to the point.People in this future look back on our ranting raving dark age ofcrazy-making punditry, and fall to their knees in gratitude thatat least it's not 2010 or thereabouts, when everything was justnuts! They weren't even teaching about Bucky hardly at all, whenso much depended on waking up to brighter prospects.Hard to explain, how our ancestors could be so slow.Something in the water? Lead poisoning?That's what some speculate happened to the Romans. Brain roteroded their civilization from the inside out. Fast food?I've written quite a bit about voting and voting technology [in these blogs already](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2004/11/open-source-voting.html).  You may ask why I haven't instituted tagging for your reading convenience, or turned on comments to this post.  Well, I come to the Web from a Quaker background and was just thinking of these as my journals, world-readable for sure, but not water coolers for people to gather around and chat with each other.  Lots of blogs out there serve that purpose (literally millions at the time of this writing), so I hope it's OK.