---
title: Set Design
id: 1843610828818620846
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2011-03-26T19:14:00.000-07:00
updated: 2011-03-27T10:23:35.408-07:00
blog: control_room
tags: 
---

I think it'd be way against code to trash the Blue House and replace it with a dome.  You might think, as a Fullerite, that I'd be all for doing that, but as a matter of fact, I'm into preserving the historic character of the neighborhood and all this wood, as configured, is way more valuable than what it'd be in a recycling heap.That being said, the Evaluation and Monitoring Room (aka the "control room") is going to acquire a new cover of some kind or another.  Some guy plans to saw off the fence, which will make it easier to build the temporary deck atop the doomed flooring.  Should a two-story movie set arise, budgeted by the film company?  [What about Duke's](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/2010/02/exchange-with-japan.html) then?  Our fates seem tied in some way.  I've imagined a spiral staircase and metal framework, more like a fire station.  LCDs and speakers, computers, screw onto poles, in a kind of minimalist system, perhaps a Home Depot product down the road, or Office Depot as the case may be.No, I don't think a loan officer would be in the mood to underwrite such a thing, given [Coffee Shops Network](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2011/01/wanderers-20110126.html) is already getting juice, or some business is, barely keeping the lights on (with heat intermittent in balmy Rainforest, Oregon (he says I'll need a "tiger loop")).  Retrofitting "this old house" with energy monitoring devices just echoes that ever receding end-of-the-rainbow dream of a "smart house".  It's an [open secret](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2011/02/open-secrets.html) that Americans are mostly into "stupid houses" these days.  The idea that each of your appliances could be held accountable:  that's still considered Jetsons territory, even though the technology has been around since the 1970s at the latest.  The central thesis of Idiocracy is borne out once again.Portland Energy Strategies might be another candidate for upgrading, as well as the Pauling House.  Product placement, lifestyle modeling... Californians like to showcase what's new. Oregonians have a more retro aesthetic to inject maybe, which viewers will find comforting.  The "dream of the '90s" and all that, something to use as raw material anyway.Of course this is all science fiction (aka investment banking).  Any real control room involved in dispatching bizmos, say, would likely need more space.  The idea of pro-actively doing useful things has its allure, versus simply "countering terrorism" or otherwise making this another "fighting the bad guys" game.  CDC and FAO tend to have more mature players than those who think 24 Hours is worthwhile television.  Counter-terrorism requires a steady supply of terrorists for job security.  Making enemies is a full time job for many a family in WDC.[](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgsQpRzbMSMuFCO5OjvrZcQBw2eepFYGCFP-pseBNYpHFbRGNx8YmuWCwI98hdBJJ8Ytr_3wLwriyTCNeS9N90T8Mx6xb7qOLgY_V-mnrUOrk59B3NU18BoirQda_EdlHTwF62Z/s1600/pinkertones.png)