---
title: Work / Study
id: 8651367941220524166
author: Kirby Urner
published: 2009-12-10T12:29:00.000-08:00
updated: 2009-12-11T09:28:53.559-08:00
blog: control_room
tags: 
---

While watching [The Edukators](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0408777/) post [E-Room](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2009/12/egyptian-room.html).JYTHONPATH=/usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages  (path to already installed)Upon running the following command (line 2 below -- the first line is all prompt) I was able to get the server going.  They say for production I want to put this inside a Java servlet container like Tomcat i.e. this is just for testing.  I've not tried this, haven't used Tomcat.Anyway, looks like a stable configuration here, just using Jython instead of Python against the very same Django code base (version 1.1).  The Jython  version takes a lot longer to boot up I'm thinking...KirbyBooting server, checking a few demo links in the browser....>>> pdx4d@system76-netbook:~/Public/downloads/Django-1.1/examples$  ~/jython2.5.1/jython manage.py runserverValidating models...0 errors foundDjango version 1.1, using settings 'examples.settings'Development server is running at [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) Quit the server with CONTROL-C.[10/Dec/2009 01:59:38] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 399[10/Dec/2009 01:59:45] "GET /hello/html/ HTTP/1.1" 200 22[10/Dec/2009 01:59:49] "GET /hello/text/ HTTP/1.1" 200 13 [10/Dec/2009 01:59:54] "GET /hello/write/ HTTP/1.1" 200 58[10/Dec/2009 01:59:59] "GET /hello/metadata/ HTTP/1.1" 200 5671I also helped out diagnosing a Zimbra problem, traced it to firewall issues.  And I don't even know Zimbra.Seven billion plus people needing food, water, shelter: that's [an engineering problem](http://worldgame.blogspot.com/2009/12/wanderers-2009128.html) as much as it's a political problem.  Technical shop talkers need their place in the sun.   I don't care if you're a Capitalist, Socialist, Anarchist or none of the above, you'll still need your engineering, your ability to work with tools.  That's your heritage as humans, not as ideologists.[Geek TV ideas](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/2009/12/more-on-geek-tv.html) seem close to [Pentagon Math ideas](http://mybizmo.blogspot.com/2009/11/increasing-military-iq.html) because of the necessity of securing a future, preferably a livable one.  Workers of the world need to focus on that global grid, and where the energy comes from, will come from, like on the National Geographic channel.How many watts does a human body burn?  No matter how much money you have in the piggy bank, you're still limited in what your body might burn through, in terms of joules, even when running a marathon, which is a good thing.  We admire bodies and their ability to heal, regrow muscle and bone.  Learning to care for one's body is a big part of health care.Engineering and medicine are naturally allies, especially when they're both committed to philanthropic goals.Note that to focus on the relevance of engineering, to insist it get air time, is not to muscle aside the priests, ethicists, philosophers, or theologians.Religious structures have always been among humanity's greatest engineering feats and there's no saying this won't continue to be the case.